README.md, before:

# Master branch

The branch [Master](https://github.com/SergioMM0/ManualMigrations_EF) contains the migration history generated with EF Core.

The database file is present inside the API folder under the name 'BloggingDatabase.db' and it contains the migrations made with EF Core.

## Creating a migration

After making sure that the current state of the database matches the latest migration, you can modify the context and add a new migration by running:

```bash
dotnet ef migrations add [DescriptionOfTheMigration]
```

Review the generated migration by checking the .Migration file inside the folder 'Migrations':

![image](https://github.com/SergioMM0/ManualMigrations_EF/assets/90683062/51db93bc-8bac-47af-9f19-d7dbe60d420f)

Check the up and down methods to see how the data structure is going to be affected:

![image](https://github.com/SergioMM0/ManualMigrations_EF/assets/90683062/36d1e194-a7ec-4558-95bd-bea2279e4648)

If the migration is ready to be applied, you can update the context of your database by running:

```bash
dotnet ef database update
```

If done correctly, the table named '__EFMigrationsHistory' should contain all the migrations applied to the database.

## Rollback

In order to rollback the current state of the database to any other migration run the command

```bash
dotnet ef database update [NameOfTheMigrationYouWantToRollback]
```

Commit message:

Feature!: Added README template for manual Schema setup and Rollback explanation

README.md, after:

# Manual Migration 
### Compulsory Assignment: Databases For Developers
---

[Provide a brief description of your project]

Setup
[Include instructions on how to set up and run your project]

Database Migration Rollback Instructions
[Explain how to revert each migration using SQL scripts. Include step-by-step instructions for each migration reversal.]

Revert Initial Schema Setup
To revert the initial schema setup migration, follow these steps:

[Provide the SQL script to drop the Products table]
[Explain how to execute the SQL script against the database]
Revert Add Product Categories
To revert the addition of product categories migration, follow these steps:

[Provide the SQL script to drop the Categories table]
[Explain how to execute the SQL script against the database]
[Include any additional steps required, such as removing the category_id column from the Products table]
Revert Implement Product Ratings
To revert the implementation of product ratings migration, follow these steps:

[Provide the SQL script to drop the ProductRatings table]
[Explain how to execute the SQL script against the database]
Rollback Process
[Summarize the steps involved in rolling back all migrations to revert the database to its initial state. Include any additional considerations or precautions.]

[List the order in which migrations should be reverted]
[Mention any potential data loss or implications of reverting migrations]
[Provide any necessary backup procedures or precautions]
